---
title: "2024"
layout: post
ShowToc: false
editPost:
    disabled: true
hideMeta: true
ShowShareButtons: false
summary: Feed 2024 on rednafi.com
images:
    - https://blob.rednafi.com/static/images/home/cover.png
---

### November 10

#### [Python **finally** gotchas][25]

Python core developer Irit Katriel recently shared a short piece discussing a few gotchas
with Python's `finally` statement. I don't think I've ever seen `continue`, `break`, or
`return` statements in a `finally` block, but if you do use them there, avoid it, as they
can lead to some unusual behavior.

The `return` statement in the `finally` block can suppress exceptions implicitly. For
example:

```python
>>> def foo():
...     try:
...         1/0
...     except Exception:
...         raise
...     finally:
...         return 0
```

Running this function will suppress the exception and return 0. While this might seem
surprising, it works this way because Python guarantees that the `finally` block will always
run. This issue can be avoided by removing the `finally` block and dedenting the `return`.
Similarly, `continue` and `break` behaves differently in that block.

This behavior is documented in the official docs. However, maintainers are considering
making this a warning and, eventually, illegal.

[25]: https://github.com/iritkatriel/finally/blob/main/README.md

---

### November 9

#### [Software Engineering at Google][24]

I've been skimming through _Software Engineering at Google_ over the past few days. It's
available online for free, which is a nice bonus. Rather than focusing on specific
technologies or operational mechanisms, the book highlights the organization-wide
engineering policies that have helped Google scale. The text is sparse and, at times, quite
boring, but there are definitely some gems that kept me going. Here are three interesting
terms I've picked up so far:

**Beyoncé Rule** – Inspired by Beyoncé's line, _"If you liked it, then you should have put a
ring on it."_ If you think something's important, write a test for it and make sure it's
part of the CI.

**Chesterton's Fence** – Don't dismantle an established practice without understanding why
it exists. Consider why certain legacy systems or rules are in place before changing or
removing them.

**Haunted Graveyard** – Parts of the codebase no one wants to touch—difficult to maintain or
just feel "cursed." They're usually left alone because the cost to update them is high, and
no one fully understands them.

I've always wanted to put names on these things, and now I can!

[24]: https://abseil.io/resources/swe-book

---

### November 08

The further I got in my career, the less value I gained from books on mechanisms, and the
more from books on policy. But policy books are boring.

My 17th book on writing better Python or Go was way more fun to read than Software
Engineering at Google, but yielded way less value.

---

### October 27

#### [Understanding Round Robin DNS][23]

Round Robin DNS works by adding multiple IP addresses for the same domain in your DNS
provider's settings. For example, if you're using a VPS from DigitalOcean or Hetzner, you'd
add a bunch of A records for the same subdomain (like `foo.yourdomain.com`) and point each
to a different server IP, like:

-   203.0.113.45
-   198.51.100.176
-   5.62.153.87
-   89.160.23.104

When a request comes in, the DNS resolver picks one of the IPs and sends the request to that
server—basically a poor man's load balancer. But there are some client-side quirks in how
browsers pick the IPs, and this blog digs into that.

[23]: https://blog.hyperknot.com/p/understanding-round-robin-dns

#### [Writes and write-nots — Paul Graham][22]

> _These two powerful opposing forces, the pervasive expectation of writing and the
> irreducible difficulty of doing it, create enormous pressure. This is why eminent
> professors often turn out to have resorted to plagiarism. The most striking thing to me
> about these cases is the pettiness of the thefts. The stuff they steal is usually the most
> mundane boilerplate — the sort of thing that anyone who was even halfway decent at writing
> could turn out with no effort at all. Which means they're not even halfway decent at
> writing._

[22]: https://paulgraham.com/writes.html

---

### October 14

#### [OpenTelemetry client architecture][21]

> _At the highest architectural level, OpenTelemetry clients are organized into signals.
> Each signal provides a specialized form of observability. For example, tracing, metrics,
> and baggage are three separate signals. Signals share a common subsystem – context
> propagation – but they function independently from each other._

> _Each signal provides a mechanism for software to describe itself. A codebase, such as web
> framework or a database client, takes a dependency on various signals in order to describe
> itself. OpenTelemetry instrumentation code can then be mixed into the other code within
> that codebase. This makes OpenTelemetry a cross-cutting concern - a piece of software
> which is mixed into many other pieces of software in order to provide value. Cross-cutting
> concerns, by their very nature, violate a core design principle – separation of concerns.
> As a result, OpenTelemetry client design requires extra care and attention to avoid
> creating issues for the codebases which depend upon these cross-cutting APIs._

> _OpenTelemetry clients are designed to separate the portion of each signal which must be
> imported as cross-cutting concerns from the portions which can be managed independently.
> OpenTelemetry clients are also designed to be an extensible framework. To accomplish these
> goals, each signal consists of four types of packages: API, SDK, Semantic Conventions, and
> Contrib._

[21]: https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/overview/

---

### October 05

#### [Private DNS with MagicDNS — Tailscale blog][20]

> _Tailscale runs a DNS server built-in on every node, running at `100.100.100.100`._
>
> _Yes, Tailscale on your phone includes a DNS server. (We admit that “even on your phone!”
> is a little silly when phones are basically supercomputers these days.)_
>
> _The IP `100.100.100.100`, usually pronounced “quad one hundred,” is part of the private
> Carrier-Grade NAT range. That means, just like IPs in the common private ranges,
> `192.168.1/24`, `172.16/12`, and `10/8`, it is not routable on the public internet. So
> when software on your computer sends a traditional, unencrypted UDP packet to
> `100.100.100.100`, no standard router will send it anyway._
>
> _We then tell your OS that its DNS server is `100.100.100.100`. Because operating system
> DNS clients are largely stuck in 1987, they then forward all their DNS queries over
> old-school insecure UDP DNS to `100.100.100.100`. Tailscale also installs a route to
> `100.100.100.100/32` back into Tailscale and it then hands those packets over to
> Tailscale's built-in DNS server, so unencrypted queries don't leave your device._

[20]: https://tailscale.com/blog/2021-09-private-dns-with-magicdns

---

### October 04

### Git reset vs revert

I misunderstood `git revert` and made a mess out of my `main` branch today. Thought it
worked like `git reset`—but they're not quite the same.

Here's the breakdown:

-   `git reset --soft <commit-sha>` moves the branch back to the specific commit but keeps
    your changes. It rewrites history, so you'll need a _force push_ to update the remote.

-   `git revert <commit-sha>` creates a new commit that undoes the changes from that commit
    without meddling with history. No force push needed.

Seems like `revert` is what you need if you accidentally merge something into `main`. Keeps
things clean without rewriting history.

---

### September 28

#### [Rails World 2024 Opening Keynote — David Heinemeier Hansson][18]

I was really hyped about this year's Rails World, even though I don't code much in Ruby or
Rails. I've been following 37signals' work on simplifying deployment complexity and
dogfooding their own tools to show how well they work.

It's also refreshing to see someone with more influence acknowledging that the JS ecosystem
is unsustainably complex. Not everyone digs that, no matter how hip it might be. Personally,
I usually have a higher tolerance for backend and infra complexity than for frontend.

[Kamal 2.0][19] now makes it easy to deploy multiple containers behind SSL on a single VM
without dealing with the usual infrastructure idiosyncrasies.

> _Then we have Kamal 2. This is how you're going to get your application into the cloud,
> your own hardware, or any container, because we're not tying ourselves to a PaaS. Kamal 2
> levels this up substantially. It does Auto SSL through Let's Encrypt, so you don't even
> have to know anything about provisioning an SSL certificate. It allows multiple
> applications to run on a single server, scaling down as well as up. It comes with a simple
> declaration setup for detailing what your deployment looks like, encapsulated in the
> fewest possible pieces of information to get as close as possible to no config._

> _The initial trigger for me to get interested in no build for Rails 7 was an infuriating
> annoyance: being unable to compile a JavaScript project I had carelessly left alone for
> about five minutes. None of the tools worked; everything was outdated. And when I tried to
> update it so I could compile it again, I literally couldn't figure it out. I spent half a
> day wrestling with Webpacker at the time, and I did turn over the table, saying, 'No, I
> made the integration for Webpacker to Rails, and I cannot figure out how this works.
> There's something deeply, fundamentally broken in that model.' And that's when I realized
> the truth: only the browser is forever._

[18]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-cEn_83zRFw
[19]: https://kamal-deploy.org/

---

### September 25

#### [The man who killed Google search — Edward Zitron][17]

> _Every single article I've read about Gomes' tenure at Google spoke of a man deeply
> ingrained in the foundation of one of the most important technologies ever made, who had
> dedicated decades to maintaining a product with a — to quote Gomes himself — “guiding
> light of serving the user and using technology to do that.” And when finally given the
> keys to the kingdom — the ability to elevate Google Search even further — he was ratfucked
> by a series of rotten careerists trying to please Wall Street, led by Prabhakar Raghavan._

[17]: https://www.wheresyoured.at/the-men-who-killed-google/

---

### September 23

#### [Microservices are technical debt — Matt Ranney, Principal Engineer, Doordash][16]

> _Microservices are technical debt because while they initially allow teams to move faster
> by working independently, they eventually create a distributed monolith, where services
> become so intertwined that they require excessive maintenance and coordination, slowing
> down future development._

> _The real driver for adopting microservices is not necessarily scaling traffic, but
> scaling teams—when too many developers are working on the same monolith, they step on each
> other's toes during deployments, forcing the need for smaller, independently deployable
> services._

> _Surely at this point the comment threads are going to explode with people saying that
> microservices should never share databases—like, can you believe that sacrilege of having
> two services share the same database? How do you live with yourself?_

[16]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LcJKxPXYudE&t=197s

---

### September 22

#### [How streaming LLM APIs work — Simon Willison][15]

While it's pretty easy to build a simple HTTP streaming endpoint with any basic framework
and some generator-like language construct, I've always been curious about how
production-grade streaming LLM endpoints from OpenAI, Anthropic, or Google work. It seems
like they're using a similar pattern:

> _All three of the APIs I investigated worked roughly the same: they return data with a
> `content-type: text/event-stream` header, which matches the server-sent events mechanism,
> then stream blocks separated by `\r\n\r\n`. Each block has a `data: JSON` line. Anthropic
> also include a `event: line` with an event type._
>
> _Annoyingly these can't be directly consumed using the browser `EventSource` API because
> that only works for GET requests, and these APIs all use POST._

It seems like all of them use a somewhat compliant version of Server-Sent Events (SSE) to
stream the responses.

[15]: https://til.simonwillison.net/llms/streaming-llm-apis

---

### September 17

#### [DHH talks Apple, Linux, and Running servers — How About Tomorrow][14]

During yesterday evening's walk, I had a lot of fun listening to DHH rant about the Apple
ecosystem and the big cloud providers. I can totally get behind how so many people find
deployment harder than it actually is, and how the big cloud providers are making bank off
that.

> _We were incredibly proud that we were going to take on Gmail with a fresh new system
> based on thinking from 2020, not 2004, and we thought that was going to be the big boss,
> right? We're going to take on Google with an actually quite good email system. But we
> didn't even get to begin that fight because before a bigger boss showed up and just like
> Apple sat down on our chest and said, 'Give me your—you're going to give me your lunch
> money and 30% of everything you own in perpetuity going forward.'_

> _We used to be in the cloud. We used to be on AWS. We used to be on all this stuff for a
> bunch of our things with Basecamp and Hey, and we yanked all of it out because cost was
> just getting ridiculous, and we built a bit of tooling, and now I'm on a goddamn mission
> to make open source as capable, as easy to use as all these AWS resellers against any box
> running basic Linux with an IP address you can connect to._

[14]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fEy9JhHk6lg

---

### September 16

#### [The many meanings of event-driven architecture — Martin Fowler][13]

In this 2017 talk, Martin Fowler untangled a few concepts for me that often get lumped
together under the event-driven umbrella. He breaks event-driven systems into four main
types:

**Event notification:** A system sends out a signal (event) when something happens but with
minimal details. Other systems receive the notification and must request more information if
needed. This keeps things simple and decoupled but makes tracking harder since the event
doesn't include full data.

**Event-carried state transfer:** Events carry all the necessary data upfront, so no extra
requests are needed. This simplifies interactions but can make events bulky and harder to
manage as the system scales.

**Event sourcing:** Instead of storing just the current state, the system logs every event
that occurs. This allows you to reconstruct the state at any time. It's great for auditing
and troubleshooting but adds complexity as log data grows.

**CQRS:** Commands (write operations) and queries (read operations) are handled separately,
letting each be optimized on its own. It works well for complex domains but introduces more
architectural overhead and needs careful planning.

Interestingly, I've been using the second one without knowing what it was called.

[13]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=STKCRSUsyP0

---

### September 15

#### [Founder Mode, hackers, and being bored by tech — Ian Betteridge][12]

On a micro scale, I think, there's still a lot to be excited about. But on the macro level,
this VC-Founder monoculture has been stealing the thunder from what really matters—the great
technology that should have been a testament to the hive mind's ingenuity. Instead, all the
attention is on the process itself.

> _Tech has become all Jobs and no Woz. As Dave Karpf rightly identifies, the hacker has
> vanished from the scene, to be replaced by an endless array of know-nothing hero founders
> whose main superpower is the ability to bully subordinates (and half of Twitter) into
> believing they are always right._

[12]: https://ianbetteridge.com/2024/09/14/founder-mode-hackers-and-being-bored-by-tech/

---

### September 14

#### [Simon Willison on the _Software Misadventures_ podcast][9]

I spent a delightful 2 hours this morning listening to Simon Willison talk about his
creative process and how LLMs have evolved his approach.

He shared insights into how he's become more efficient with time, writing consistently on
his blog, inspired by things like Duolingo's streak and [Tom Scott's][10] weekly video run
for a decade. Another thing I found fascinating is how he uses GitHub Issues to record every
little detail of a project he's working on. This helps him manage so many projects at once
without burning out. Simon even pulled together a [summary][11] from the podcast transcript
that captured some of the best bits of the discussion.

About 5 years ago, one of Simon's tweets inspired me to start publishing my thoughts and
learnings, no matter how trivial they may seem. My career has benefited immensely from that.
The process of reifying your ideas and learning on paper seems daunting at first, but it
gets easier over time.

[9]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6U_Zk_PZ6Kg
[10]: https://www.youtube.com/@TomScottGo/videos
[11]: https://simonwillison.net/2024/Sep/10/software-misadventures/

---

### September 09

#### [Canonical log lines — Stripe Engineering Blog][8]

I've been practicing this for a while but didn't know what to call it. Canonical log lines
are arbitrarily wide structured log messages that get fired off at the end of a unit of
work. In a web app, you could emit a special log line tagged with different IDs and
attributes at the end of every request. The benefit is that when debugging, these are the
logs you'll check first. Sifting through fewer messages and correlating them with other logs
makes investigations much more effective, and the structured nature of these logs allows for
easier filtering and automated analysis.

> _Out of all the tools and techniques we deploy to help get insight into production,
> canonical log lines in particular have proven to be so useful for added operational
> visibility and incident response that we've put them in almost every service we run—not
> only are they used in our main API, but there's one emitted every time a webhook is sent,
> a credit card is tokenized by our PCI vault, or a page is loaded in the Stripe Dashboard._

[8]: https://stripe.com/blog/canonical-log-lines

---

### September 07

#### [Recognizing the Gell-Mann Amnesia effect in my use of LLM tools][6]

It took time for me to recognize the [Gell-Mann Amnesia][7] effect shaping how I use LLM
tools in my work. When dealing with unfamiliar tech, I'm quick to accept suggestions
verbatim, but in a domain I know, the patches rarely impress and often get torn to shreds.

[6]: https://x.com/rednafi/status/1832414343952265432
[7]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Michael_Crichton#GellMannAmnesiaEffect

---

### September 04

#### [On the importance of ablation studies in deep learning research — François Chollet][5]

This is true for almost any engineering effort. It's always a good idea to ask if the design
can be simplified without losing usability. Now I know there's a name for this practice:
ablation study.

> _The goal of research shouldn't be merely to publish, but to generate reliable knowledge.
> Crucially, understanding causality in your system is the most straightforward way to
> generate reliable knowledge. And there's a very low-effort way to look into causality:
> ablation studies. Ablation studies consist of systematically trying to remove parts of a
> system—making it simpler—to identify where its performance actually comes from. If you
> find that X + Y + Z gives you good results, also try X, Y, Z, X + Y, X + Z, and Y + Z, and
> see what happens._

> _If you become a deep learning researcher, cut through the noise in the research process:
> do ablation studies for your models. Always ask, "Could there be a simpler explanation? Is
> this added complexity really necessary? Why?_

[5]: https://x.com/fchollet/status/1831029432653599226

---

### September 01

#### [Why A.I. Isn't Going to Make Art — Ted Chiang, The New Yorker][4]

I indiscriminately devour almost everything Ted Chiang puts out, and this piece is no
exception. It's one of the most articulate arguments I've read on the sentimental value of
human-generated artifacts, even when AI can make perfect knockoffs.

I'm pro-LLMs and use them to aid my work all the time. While they're incredibly useful for a
certain genre of tasks, buying into the Silicon Valley idea that these are soon going to
replace every type of human-generated content is incredibly naive and redolent of the hubris
within the tech bubble.

> _Art is notoriously hard to define, and so are the differences between good art and bad
> art. But let me offer a generalization: art is something that results from making a lot of
> choices. This might be easiest to explain if we use fiction writing as an example. When
> you are writing fiction, you are—consciously or unconsciously—making a choice about almost
> every word you type; to oversimplify, we can imagine that a ten-thousand-word short story
> requires something on the order of ten thousand choices. When you give a generative-A.I.
> program a prompt, you are making very few choices; if you supply a hundred-word prompt,
> you have made on the order of a hundred choices._

> _Generative A.I. appeals to people who think they can express themselves in a medium
> without actually working in that medium. But the creators of traditional novels,
> paintings, and films are drawn to those art forms because they see the unique expressive
> potential that each medium affords. It is their eagerness to take full advantage of those
> potentialities that makes their work satisfying, whether as entertainment or as art._

> _Any writing that deserves your attention as a reader is the result of effort expended by
> the person who wrote it. Effort during the writing process doesn't guarantee the end
> product is worth reading, but worthwhile work cannot be made without it._

> _Some individuals have defended large language models by saying that most of what human
> beings say or write isn't particularly original. That is true, but it's also irrelevant.
> When someone says “I'm sorry” to you, it doesn't matter that other people have said sorry
> in the past; it doesn't matter that “I'm sorry” is a string of text that is statistically
> unremarkable. If someone is being sincere, their apology is valuable and meaningful, even
> though apologies have previously been uttered. Likewise, when you tell someone that you're
> happy to see them, you are saying something meaningful, even if it lacks novelty._

[4]: https://www.newyorker.com/culture/the-weekend-essay/why-ai-isnt-going-to-make-art

---

### August 31

#### [How to Be a Better Reader — Tina Jordan, The NY Times][3]

> _To read more deeply, to do the kind of reading that stimulates your imagination, the
> single most important thing to do is take your time. You can't read deeply if you're
> skimming. As the writer Zadie Smith has said, “When you practice reading, and you work at
> a text, it can only give you what you put into it.”_

> _At a time when most of us read in superficial, bite-size chunks that prize quickness —
> texts, tweets, emails — it can be difficult to retrain your brain to read at an unhurried
> pace, but it is essential. In “Slow Reading in a Hurried Age,” David Mikics writes that
> “slow reading changes your mind the way exercise changes your body: A whole new world will
> open up, you will feel and act differently, because books will be more open and alive to
> you.”_

[3]: https://www.nytimes.com/explain/2022/how-to-be-a-better-reader

---

### August 26

#### [Dark Matter — Blake Crouch][1]

I just finished the book. It's an emotional rollercoaster of a story, stemming from a
MacGuffin that enables quantum superposition in the macro world, bringing the Copenhagen
interpretation of quantum mechanics to life.

While the book starts off with a bang, it becomes a bit more predictable as the story
progresses. I still enjoyed how well the author reified the probable dilemma that having
access to the multiverse might pose. Highly recommened. I'm already beyond excited to read
his next book, [Recursion][2].

[1]:
    https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27833670-dark-matter?ac=1&from_search=true&qid=rTnd5yTPS5&rank=1
[2]: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42046112-recursion

---
