---
title: "2025"
layout: post
ShowToc: false
editPost:
    disabled: true
hideMeta: true
ShowShareButtons: false
images:
    - https://blob.rednafi.com/static/images/home/cover.png
date: 2025
---

### January 02

#### [Stop Designing Languages. Write Libraries Instead – Patrick S. Li][2]

When I first started dabbling with Go, I couldn't help but wonder why it didn't have
anything as slick as Python's FastAPI. Generating API docs directly from code required a
flexible type system and robust introspection capabilities, which Go just didn't have back
then. But now, with generics in the mix, libraries are finally emerging that can generate
OpenAPI specs and docs from code without much fuss.

> The design of the programming language directly determines what sort of libraries you can
> write and how easy they are to use in the end. In the C language, the only major feature
> provided for enabling reuse is the ability to declare and call functions. So guess what?
> The majority of C libraries are basically large collections of functions. Ruby on Rails
> provides a concise way for expressing: do this when the button is clicked. The "do this"
> part is implemented in Ruby as a first-class function. How would it be implemented in
> languages like Java which don't support them? Well, the behaviour of first-class functions
> can be mocked by defining a new event handler class with a single perform_action method
> and then passing an instance of this class to the button object. So guess what? Using a
> Java library typically entails declaring a humongous number of handler classes. The
> programming language directly shapes the design of its libraries.

[2]: https://lbstanza.org/purpose_of_programming_languages.html

---

### January 01

#### [Databases in 2024: A Year in Review – Andy Pavlo][1]

From Redis and Elasticsearch's licensing drama to Databricks vs. Snowflake's billion-dollar
sparring, to DuckDB's integration into Postgres—this post offers a great overview of the
major database events of 2024.

I've been reading Andy's database event reviews for the past three years and love his work.
However, I'm not sure how to feel about the unwarranted shade thrown at Redis. While I don't
agree with Redis Ltd.'s licensing decisions, I still think it's a marvelous engineering
artifact that has shaped the query languages of many similar key-value storage systems.

[1]: https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~pavlo/blog/2025/01/2024-databases-retrospective.html

---
